I just got a question from an Amazon
Seller in our community you know who you
are so thanks for asking and uh he was
asking what is the best way to filter an
Amazon search term report which may seem
like a technical question but it has
really big implications for your whole
business right now I'm going to give you
the secret keys to find how much money
is actually being wasted completely
wasted on your Amazon ads so that you
can stop that and you can make more
money instantly more profit instantly
this could be a mortgage payment a car
payment dinners all month are free
whatever you want the the answer is
probably in this document for your
business and the second thing is we're
going to be able to find stuff that's
working so we can do more of that stuff
but just backing up for a second what
even is this thing what are we looking
at well this is an Amazon search term
report this is an Excel spreadsheet that
you download from Amazon itself from the
advertising console and basically what
it shows you is on a really granular
level what's working and what's not
working with your ads because you know
know in the ads console you can see like
ad spend ad Revenue acos row ass those
General metrics uh graphed over time but
what you can't really see as well is you
know you ran an ad for this particular
term and it got this many clicks and it
got that much spend and that much sales
so this is this is basically that right
and so it's just a spreadsheet that you
download each row in the spreadsheet
represents one specific term right so
this means you know for the period that
we're talking about this specific term
spent a total of 54 dollars across a 57
clicks and it generated 179 dollars in
sales and that of course that's been
divided by those sales is a 30.265
etc percent acos right and so that's
just for that one term and then we have
a bunch of other terms just to keep it
really Universal and applicable to
everybody I changed the specific
campaign names and the targeting and the
Search terms to just generic ones so we
can focus on the bigger picture here
okay but this is real data this is a
real search term report pulled
um for the last 60 days I think in in
the case of this account right
um and uh so you know you might be
looking at this spreadsheet you're like
oh my gosh there's a lot of data here
what do I do with this thing that's
exactly what to do like like uh anything
though
it's simpler than it seems and there are
only a few things that really matter so
I want to introduce you to the main
characters of our story that we focus on
and everything else can take a back seat
the first thing is first the customer
search term
and our important stuff I'm going to put
it in yellow highlight just because
that's the color of importance and
emergency the customer search term is
basically what Shoppers actually clicked
when they found your ad and they click
through right that's different from the
targeting because the targeting is what
you as a seller set but it's not
necessarily the same thing as what the
customer actually clicks this is
especially true of Auto campaigns where
you don't set any specific targeting and
you know it could even be the case that
um you know for Broad and phrase match
you set a slightly different Target and
then Amazon's algorithm tweaked it a
little bit and gave you this specific
customer search term you'll find that
this is true across all your accounts
um
and so yeah and that's so so this one is
the more important one this is what
customers actually clicked and what
actually got you sales at the end of the
day
the other two important characters of
course are spend so what we actually
spent out of our wallet
on the ads and very similarly what we
got back in return what did we make
in sales because that's really what
matters and we want this you know the
amount of spend to be as low in
proportion to the sales as possible as a
general rule
there's stuff to consider like ranking
and what have you but that's you know
that's a different uh topic for a
different day but uh yeah so so I think
pretty much what we have here
I'll show you the positive view first
right uh here in column o I'll just
filter it by Z to A I think it was
already filtered that way and that'll
give us our top you know best-selling
customer Search terms right so say this
was I don't know say we're an aluminum
water bottle company and This this term
was aluminum water bottle right and we
spent 300 bucks and we got a thousand
dollars back and this say this 27 acos
does does work with our margins it's a
little high probably but say it works
with our margins and we want to do more
of that all we would do is take this
customer search term again not the
keyword but the customer search term and
we would put this into a keyword
research tool like a helium 10 for
example where it gives you a bunch of
other keyword examples back and then you
can that can help you brainstorm and you
can run more manual campaigns for more
terms like this right so you have more
similar results along these same lines
right and um so that's that's how you
use the search term report information
to grow it but now let's see the uh
let's see the downside of it and let's
see how to sort of cap our our downside
here I want to show you something that
you're not going to like it's not going
to be pretty but if you can find this in
your account and you can do something
about it you can save thousands in some
cases tens of thousands maybe hundreds
of thousands every single month as you
grow all right this is real money that's
being spent and so yeah
let me ask you something though you see
with all these terms right here in
column and you see we spent 300 we got
back a thousand spent 186 got back 918
that's awesome spent 33 bucks got back
223. awesome awesome but you could
probably imagine right that there's
going to be certain terms
that spent but didn't get any sales at
all right you can imagine that that's
that's easy to imagine it happens all
the time
so if terms have like even like this one
where the acos is too high right like we
spent 43 dollars and only got back 61.
even that's at least we got a sale out
of that but you can imagine there's
probably some terms where we spent like
you know at least you know the 24 bucks
but we didn't make any sales at all so
I'm just going to filter by that
I'm going to filter by all the spend
where we spent anything so I'm just
going to take out the zeros here
but you know and I'm going to do the
exact opposite here on the sale so I'm
going to clear it
I'm only going to see for the time being
items where we had spend right but no
sales
and I might as well filter this by
highest to lowest right all right so
boom
and uh just just to make it to make it
painful let's sum this so seven seven
thousand right is the number
seven thousand three six one
is the amount that we spent on terms in
the last 60 days that resulted in no
sales whatsoever and here are most
egregious offenders here so we have one
with 46 clicks
you know 30 bucks in spend and nothing
right 40 clicks 26 dollars and nothing
30 and nothing right it's more excusable
when you get into the lower numbers like
it's not statistically significant to
say ah well you know we we got three
clicks and we should have converted one
and three I mean unless we know that the
listing is converting you know one in
every three customers it would be
unrealistic to expect that most of these
terms would really
um you know would convert in a big way
but there's no excuse for having stuff
like this in the account
because statistically it's over right
like we we like to see products that
have roughly a 10 conversion rate so
once it passes that and we've got 18
clicks you know and we haven't converted
anybody it's it's okay to shut it off
right and you might be asking okay how
do I shut it off well you have a couple
options if you truly think in your heart
that the search term is indeed relevant
or maybe it's good for ranking or
something like this you can keep it
running but you'll just probably want to
lower the bid so that you don't pay as
much for each individual ad click so
that maybe the acos can get in line or
it can give you more chances to get more
clicks and eventually convert someone so
that's the less severe option but again
if you've seen a term it's got 46 clicks
it's not doing much of anything it's
it's a you know it's a burden on on our
on our spend on our budget here
um we can add it as a negative keyword
to the campaign that it came from so
you'd have to go into this campaign take
this and add this as a negative exact
keyword all right and just block it out
so that this never spends in this way
again and then magically you'll find
that this wasted ad spend over time goes
away
and that's how in aggregate you get a
better sort of a lower ecos in your ads
account over time that's just how that
works right so you have a couple just
like um a painter with multiple brushes
you have a couple brush Styles you have
a couple tools that you can use to
lower this amount of spend if you truly
believe it's a good term or you need it
for ranking you could decrease the bid
and that way you'll still show up but
the clicks that you get will be less
expensive or if you're finding it's just
simply not relevant or maybe it's past
the point of return statistically add it
as a negative keyword negative exact
right you can even use you know to add a
third sort of paint brush to the mix you
could even add some terms as negative
phrase so for example you know if you
sell a red water bottle and you're
getting clicks for a blue water bottle
you could add blue water bottle as
negative exact but you'd only be
eliminating
um your appearances for that specific
term you could add blue as a negative
phrase for example so you'd never show
up for anything blue ever again because
the water bottle that you're selling was
in fact red or vice versa right
um so yeah that's that's how you cut
this spend it doesn't seem like you know
what's 30 bucks what's 15 bucks what's
18 you know but um but it adds up it
adds up really fast to the point where
there was there were seven thousand
three hundred in spend just gone uh over
the course of over the course of 60 days
right that is indeed a mortgage payment
that's being spent on terms that
resulted in no sales whatsoever none
so that's really harmful and unless you
do this exercise and you look through
the search term report like we just did
you're going to keep getting hurt by
this every single month it's like a
crazy tax on your Amazon business that
doesn't go away right so you can fix it
and you'll make more money for sure
and on the flip side you can also
accentuate more of what's already
working so you can get more sales that
way so there's both removing the
negative and enhancing the positive I
wrote you a book I will drop it in the
comments of this video it's got five
plus years of Amazon ads data packed
into it on exactly what's working with
new techniques and strategies especially
things that the Amazon algorithm is
looking for now in 2023 that they
weren't looking for in previous years
I'll drop it in the comments of this
video and it's totally free so check it
out if you if you would like I'll see
you on the other side see you in the
next video